America's New Military Culture - Boston.com

It's natural for there to be a cultural gap between soldiers and civlians. And yet, according to
Robert L. Goldich, a military historian and consultant, that gap is wider and deeper now than
it has ever been before. In "American Military Culture from Colony to Empire," a paper in
the summer issue of Daedalus , Goldich argues that America's changing strategic outlook has
led, after several decades, to the creation of a separate military world -- a world which, in
contrast to our increasingly pacifist and easygoing civilian society, is "flinty, harshly resultsoriented,
and emotionally extreme." People in the two cultures live drastically different lives,
and, increasingly, have different values.

Today's military is very different. The link between civilian and military culture is gone;
instead, the military has a culture of its own, to which soldiers eagerly adapt. Today's military
is an "all-volunteer force," or AVF, which means that no one's there who didn't choose to
embrace military values. Those values are self-consciously different from the ones central to
civilian life. Civil society is organized around the virtues of friendliness and tolerance; it's
gender-neutral, with male aggressiveness kept to a minimum; it's cushy, comfortable, and
consumerist; it fiercly defends the rights of individuals to express themselves. The military
world is the opposite. It's authoritarian and group-oriented, tough, disciplined, aggressive,
male-dominated, and physically arduous. In an excellent essay in Commentary magazine last
year, Sam Jacobson, a Marine, described military culture as organized around values which
civil society regards as "anachronisms": "love of glory, pugnacity, intrepidity, severity, order,
discipline, deprivation, devotion, exertion, hardihood, risk, sharpness, precipitousness,
contempt for life (whether one’s own or another’s), conscription, the blood tax, honor, and,
above all, duty and self-forgetfulness."

The culture war within - February 2011 - Armed Forces Journal - Military Strategy, Glob...

The pluralist ideal of “e pluribus unum” rooted in our nation’s federal constitution is essentially political pluralism. Cultural pluralism has always had to fight for social space in America. In
the words of Frederick Douglass: “The whole history of the progress of human liberty shows that ... it must be a struggle. Power concedes nothing without a demand. It never did and it
never will.”
The debate about the cultural values of the military institutions that society creates for itself is a normal and necessary discussion. Disagreement should be expected and, in the end, there
will always be winners and losers. The real threat now facing the military is that of discrimination. Both sides of the aisle worry that the policy shift could lead to discrimination against their
cultural values. How to prevent discrimination, and worse, harassment, inside the ranks presents a perpetual concern for senior leaders. Yet, the secret to the success of major social
integration within the military is tried and true and really no secret at all:
• Establish clear policy guidance as to the expectations for all service members.
• Provide sufficient training on the policy to ensure the expectations are communicated and understood by everyone.
• Demand leaders at all levels take accountability and responsibility to foster inclusion and respect through their words, deeds and example.
• Punish those who don’t comply.
The challenge for societal, political and military leaders is always to prevent too great an incongruence between cultural change and policy change. Nevertheless, as history has taught us,
when we come to those moments as a nation and find ourselves at a crossroads, we have a choice between one of two paths: the difficult path of progress or the simple one of
obstructionism.
The reality of diversity is that regardless of the choice, it is almost inevitable we will eventually arrive at the same place. The only remaining question for the military is how much selfinflicted
damage will it have to endure before reaching that point. The path that diversity has followed in the U.S. over the course of its history has been one of increased diversity. At every
step of the way, efforts to increase it


pub 895

pub1076





