Military Matters Article One
For bfnews.com
By: Jefferson


<p>Welcome to Military Matters with Sergeant J. Hello, my name is  Sergeant First Class Jefferson. My full name is Lawrence Jefferson II, but in the armed services everyone pretty much known by their last name. I am part of the wonderful community of Bonners Ferry, ID and I have called this place my home since 1993.  I am also a United States Army and Army National Guard veteran who is still presently serving on active duty. I first joined the Army in 1989. I had a three year break in service from 2001 to 2004. During my time in the Army and Army National Guard I have traveled to fifteen different countries and served in three different combat zones. I am by no means an expert on military culture, but I do understand it pretty well since I have been a member of it my entire adult life. This column will serve two purposes. First it is a column that will serve to keep the military community of Bonners Ferry informed of various military issues; military matters. It will also have links to web sites that Veterans should check out, like eBenefits.gov  Second this column will serve as a window for the non-military citizen to become a little more acquainted with the military and veteran citizens beyond what is normally known; the military does matter.</p>  

<p>To start off we need to understand just who the people that this column is dedicated to are. Service members are a unique type of people (I say people and not Americans, because not all service members are American citizens). Whether we are American citizens currently serving, American veterans who have already served, or a service members born to another country who are serving and have served; we are all part of one military culture. Understanding this culture is not very easy, but there are a couple of elements that we all share that I will impart in this article. Whether we volunteered or drafted, when we cross over from civilian to service member there is a basic training course that you have to attend. This course serves to take us from civilian to service member, to teach us the ways of our particular branch of service; especially concerning the ways of war. It is during this time that we are given two things that are kept until the day we die; our creed and our song. Every branch of the service has its own creed and song and they are key to understanding what drives to guide many of us (not all unfortunately) and why there are differences depending on the branch (for some it is branches) we belong too. Some of the songs might have changed over the years, so the older veterans might not recognized some of the new versus; nonetheless, here are our Creeds and Songs. So, as I am Army I will start off with the Army’s creed and Song. Actually, the order of the services as per display of the order of their flags according to Department of Defense Directive 1005.8 of October 31, 1977 is Army, Marine Corp, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard. During times of war, the Coast Guard serves under the Navy and its flag would move ahead of the Air Force.</p> 

<h1>ARMY</h1>

<h2>Soldier’s Creed:</h2>
I am an American soldier.
I am a warrior and member of a team.
I serve the people of the United States, and live the Army Values.
I will always place the mission first.
I will never accept defeat.
I will never quit.
I will never leave a fallen comrade.
I am disciplined, physically and mentally tough, trained and proficient in my warrior tasks and drills.
I am disciplined, physically and mentally tough, trained and proficient in my warrior tasks and drills.
I am an expert and I am a professional.
I stand ready to deploy, engage, and destroy, the enemies of the United States of America in close combat.
I am a guardian of freedom and the American way of life.
I am an American Soldier.

<h2>The Army Song:</h2>
March along, sing our song, with the Army of the free.
Count the brave, count the true, who have fought to victory.
We’re the Army and proud of our name!
We’re the Army and proudly proclaim:
First to fight for the right,
And to build the Nation’s might,
And The Army Goes Rolling Along.
Proud of all we have done,
Fighting till the battle’s won,
And the Army Goes Rolling Along.
Then it’s hi! hi! hey!
The Army’s on its way.
Count off the cadence loud and strong;
For where’er we go,
You will always know
That The Army Goes Rolling Along.
Valley Forge, Custer’s ranks,
San Juan Hill and Patton’s tanks,
And the Army went rolling along.
Minute men, from the start,
Always fighting from the heart,
And the Army keeps rolling along.
(same as above)
(slower, more freely)
Men in rags, men who froze,
Still that Army met its foes,
And the Army went rolling along.
Faith in God, then we’re right,
And we’ll fight with all our might,
As the Army keeps rolling along.
Then it’s hi! hi! hey!
The Army’s on its way.
Count off the cadence loud and strong; (two! three!) 
For where’er we go,
You will always know
That THE ARMY GOES ROLLING ALONG! (keep it rolling!) 
And THE ARMY GOES ROLLING ALONG! 

<h1>MARINE CORP</h1>

<h2>RIFLEMAN'S CREED</h2>
Every Marine is first and foremost, a rifleman. This becomes evident in the first days of Marine Corps
Recruit Training, as all recruits since World War II have learned to recite the Rifleman's Creed.

This is my rifle. There are many like it, but this one is mine.
My rifle is my best friend. It is my life. I must master it as I must master my life.
My rifle, without me, is useless. Without my rifle, I am useless. I must fire my rifle true. I must shoot straighter than my enemy who is trying to kill me. I must shoot him before he shoots me. 
I will…

My rifle and myself know that what counts in this war is not the rounds we fire, the noise of our burst, nor the smoke we make. We know that it is the hits that count. We will hit...

My rifle is human, even as I, because it is my life. Thus, I will learn it as a brother. I will learn its
weaknesses, its strength, its parts, its accessories, its sights and its barrel. I will ever guard it against the ravages of weather and damage as I will ever guard my legs, my arms, my eyes and my heart against damage. I will keep my rifle clean and ready. We will become part of each other. We will...

Before God, I swear this creed. My rifle and myself are the defenders of my country. We are the masters of our enemy. We are the saviors of my life. So be it, until victory is America's and there is no enemy, but peace!

<h2>Marine Corp Hymm:</h2>

From the Halls of Montezuma,
To the shores of Tripoli;
We fight our country's battles
In the air, on land, and sea;
First to fight for right and freedom
And to keep our honor clean:
We are proud to claim the title
Of United States Marine.

Our flag's unfurled to every breeze
From dawn to setting sun;
We have fought in every clime and place
Where we could take a gun;
In the snow of far-off Northern lands
And in sunny tropic scenes;
You will find us always on the job
The United States Marines.

Here's health to you and to our Corps
Which we are proud to serve;
In many a strife we've fought for life
And never lost our nerve;
If the Army and the Navy
Ever look on Heaven's scenes;
They will find the streets are guarded
By The United States Marines.

<h1>NAVY</h1>

<h2>The Sailor’s Creed:</h2>

I am a United States Sailor.
I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States of
America and I will obey the orders of those appointed over me.
I represent the fighting spirit of the Navy and those who have
gone before me to defend freedom and democracy around the
world.
I proudly serve my country's Navy combat team with Honor,
Courage and Commitment.
I am committed to excellence and the fair treatment of all.

<h2>As of the Summer of 2004, the verses taught at Navy Boot Camp are:</h2>

Stand, Navy, out to sea, Fight our battle cry;
We'll never change our course, So vicious foe steer shy-y-y-y.
Roll out the TNT , Anchors Aweigh. Sail on to victory
And sink their bones to Davy Jones, hooray!

(most widely sung Verse)

Anchors Aweigh, my boys, Anchors Aweigh.
Farewell to foreign shores, We sail at break of day, of day.
Through our last night on shore, Drink to the foam,
Until we meet once more. Here's wishing you a happy voyage home

<h1>AIR FORCE</h1>

<h2>Airman's Creed</h2>

This is the Airman's promise to country and colleagues.
I am an American Airman.
I am a Warrior:
I have answered my nation’s call.
I am an American Airman.
My mission is to fly, fight, and win.
I am faithful to a proud heritage,
A tradition of honor,
And a legacy of valor.
I am an American Airman,
guardian of freedom and justice,
my Nation’s sword and shield,
Its sentry and avenger.
I defend my country with my life.
I am an American Airman:
Wingman, leader, warrior.
I will never leave an Airman behind,
I will never falter,
and I will not fail.

<h1>Air Force Song:</h1>

Off we go into the wild blue yonder,
Climbing high into the sun;
Here they come zooming to meet our thunder,
At 'em boys, Give 'er the gun! (Give 'er the gun!)*
Down we dive, spouting our flame from under,
Off with one helluva roar!**
We live in fame or go down in flame. Hey!***
Nothing'll stop the U.S. Air Force!

Additional verses:
Minds of men fashioned a crate of thunder,
Sent it high into the blue;
Hands of men blasted the world asunder;
How they lived God only knew! (God only knew then!)
Souls of men dreaming of skies to conquer
Gave us wings, ever to soar!
With scouts before and bombers galore. Hey!
Nothing'll stop the U.S. Air Force! 

Bridge: "A Toast to the Host"
Here's a toast to the host
Of those who love the vastness of the sky,
To a friend we send a message of his brother men who fly.
We drink to those who gave their all of old,
Then down we roar to score the rainbow's pot of gold.
A toast to the host of men we boast, the U.S. Air Force!

Zoom!

Off we go into the wild sky yonder,
Keep the wings level and true;
If you'd live to be a grey-haired wonder
Keep the nose out of the blue! (Out of the blue, boy!)
Flying men, guarding the nation's border,
We'll be there, followed by more!
In echelon we carry on. Hey!
Nothing will stop the U.S. Air Force!

<h1>COAST GUARD</h1>

<h2>Creed of the United States Coast Guardsman </h2>

I am proud to be a United States Coast Guardsman.
I revere that long line of expert seamen who by their devotion to duty and sacrifice of self have made it possible for me to be a member of a service honored and respected, in peace and in war, throughout the world.
I never, by word or deed, will bring reproach upon the fair name of my service, nor permit others to do so unchallenged.
I will cheerfully and willingly obey all lawful orders.
I will always be on time to relieve, and shall endeavor to do more, rather than less, than my share.
I will always be at my station, alert and attending to my duties.
I shall, so far as I am able, bring to my seniors solutions, not problems.
I shall live joyously, but always with due regard for the rights and privileges of others.
I shall endeavor to be a model citizen in the community in which I live.
I shall sell life dearly to an enemy of my country, but give it freely to rescue those in peril.
With God’s help, I shall endeavor to be one of His noblest Works...
A UNITED STATES COAST GUARDSMAN


<h2>Coast Guard Song:</h2>
Semper Paratus (Always Ready)
From Aztec Shore to Artic Zone 
To Europe and Far East. 
The Flag is carried by our ships, 
In times of war and peace. 
And never have we struck it yet 
In spite of foe-men's might, 
Who cheered our crews and cheered again, 
For showing how to fight. 

We're always ready for the call,
We place our trust in Thee.
Through surf and storm and howling gale, 
High shall our purpose be.
"Semper Paratus" is our guide,
Our fame, our glory, too.
To fight to save or fight and die,
Aye! Coast Guard we are for you!


<p>As you can see  </p>

